README.md, before:

# Apollo and GraphQL for Vue.js

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@vue/apollo-composable.svg) ![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@vue/apollo-composable.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vue/apollo-composable)
[![apollo3](https://img.shields.io/badge/apollo-3.x-blue.svg)](https://www.apollographql.com/)
[![vue3](https://img.shields.io/badge/vue-3-brightgreen.svg)](https://vuejs.org/)
[![CircleCI branch](https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/vuejs/vue-apollo/v4.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/vuejs/vue-apollo/tree/v4)

<p align="center">
  <img src="./packages/docs/src/public/hero.svg" width="512">
</p>


:book: Documentation [**for Vue 3**](http://v4.apollo.vuejs.org) | [for Vue 2](https://apollo.vuejs.org/)

[:pen: Contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

[:heart: Sponsor me!](https://github.com/sponsors/Akryum)

In this monorepository:

| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
|[@vue/apollo-composable](./packages/vue-apollo-composable) |Composition API|
|[@vue/apollo-option](./packages/vue-apollo-option)         |Options API|
|[@vue/apollo-components](./packages/vue-apollo-components) |Components with slots|
|[@vue/apollo-ssr](./packages/vue-apollo-ssr) |Server-Side Rendering Utils|
|[@vue/apollo-util](./packages/vue-apollo-util) |Other Utils|

## Sponsors

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://guillaume-chau.info/sponsors/" target="_blank">
    <img src='https://akryum.netlify.app/sponsors.svg'/>
  </a>
</p>

Commit message:

docs: note about continuous releases

README.md, after:

# Apollo and GraphQL for Vue.js

[![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@vue/apollo-composable.svg) ![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@vue/apollo-composable.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@vue/apollo-composable)
[![apollo3](https://img.shields.io/badge/apollo-3.x-blue.svg)](https://www.apollographql.com/)
[![vue3](https://img.shields.io/badge/vue-3-brightgreen.svg)](https://vuejs.org/)
[![CircleCI branch](https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/vuejs/vue-apollo/v4.svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/vuejs/vue-apollo/tree/v4)

<p align="center">
  <img src="./packages/docs/src/public/hero.svg" width="512">
</p>


:book: Documentation [**for Vue 3**](http://v4.apollo.vuejs.org) | [for Vue 2](https://apollo.vuejs.org/)

[:pen: Contributing guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

[:heart: Sponsor me!](https://github.com/sponsors/Akryum)

## Continuous Releases

You can install builds from any commit or pull request by going to the `Continuous Releases` status check or the comment in the PR.

![screenshot of the status check](./.github/continuous-releases.png)

## Monorepo

In this monorepository:

| Package | Description |
|---------|-------------|
|[@vue/apollo-composable](./packages/vue-apollo-composable) |Composition API|
|[@vue/apollo-option](./packages/vue-apollo-option)         |Options API|
|[@vue/apollo-components](./packages/vue-apollo-components) |Components with slots|
|[@vue/apollo-ssr](./packages/vue-apollo-ssr) |Server-Side Rendering Utils|
|[@vue/apollo-util](./packages/vue-apollo-util) |Other Utils|

## Sponsors

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://guillaume-chau.info/sponsors/" target="_blank">
    <img src='https://akryum.netlify.app/sponsors.svg'/>
  </a>
</p>
