docs/guide/apollo/queries.md, before:

# Queries

In GraphQL, a query is a request made to the API to retrieve data. It is represented with a *GraphQL document* like this:

```graphql
query myHelloQueryName {
  hello
}
```

In the `apollo` object, add an attribute for each property you want to feed with the result of an Apollo query. Each one of them will become a Smart Query.

## Simple query

Use `gql` to write your GraphQL queries:

```js
import gql from 'graphql-tag'
```

Put the [gql](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag) query directly as the value:

```js
apollo: {
  // Simple query that will update the 'hello' vue property
  hello: gql`{hello}`,
},
```

You can then access the query with `this.$apollo.queries.<name>`.

You can initialize the property in your vue component's `data` hook:

```js
data () {
  return {
    // Initialize your apollo data
    hello: '',
  },
},
```

Server-side, add the corresponding schema and resolver:

```js
export const schema = `
type Query {
  hello: String
}

schema {
  query: Query
}
`

export const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    hello (root, args, context) {
      return 'Hello world!'
    },
  },
}
```

For more info, visit the [apollo doc](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/).

You can then use your property as usual in your vue component:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="apollo">
    <h3>Hello</h3>
    <p>
      {{hello}}
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Name matching

Please note that a common beginner's error is to use a different data name from the field name in query, eg:

```js
apollo: {
  world: gql`query {
    hello
  }`
}
```

Notice how `world` is different from `hello`; vue-apollo won't guess which data you want to put in the component from the query result. By default, it will just try the name you are using for the data in the component (which is the key in the `apollo` object), in this case `world`. If the names don't match, you can use `update` option to tell vue-apollo what to use as data from the result:

```js
apollo: {
  world: {
    query: gql`query {
      hello
    }`,
    update: data => data.hello
  }
}
```

You can also rename the field in the GraphQL document directly:

```js
apollo: {
  world: gql`query {
    world: hello
  }`
}
```

In this example, we rename the `hello` field to `world` so that vue-apollo can automatically infer what should be retrieved from the result.

## Query with parameters

You can add variables (read parameters) to your `gql` query by declaring `query` and `variables` in an object:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping: {
    // gql query
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    // Static parameters
    variables: {
      message: 'Meow',
    },
  },
},
```

You can use the apollo `watchQuery` options in the object, like:
 - `fetchPolicy`
 - `pollInterval`
 - ...

See the [apollo doc](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/apollo-client.html#ApolloClient.watchQuery) for more details.

For example, you could add the `fetchPolicy` apollo option like this:

```js
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping: {
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    variables: {
      message: 'Meow'
    },
    // Additional options here
    fetchPolicy: 'cache-and-network',
  },
},
```

Again, you can initialize your property in your vue component:

```js
data () {
  return {
    // Initialize your apollo data
    ping: '',
  }
},
```

Server-side, add the corresponding schema and resolver:

```js
export const schema = `
type Query {
  ping(message: String!): String
}

schema {
  query: Query
}
`

export const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    ping (root, { message }, context) {
      return `Answering ${message}`
    },
  },
}
```

And then use it in your vue component:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="apollo">
    <h3>Ping</h3>
    <p>
      {{ ping }}
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Loading state

You can display a loading state thanks to the `$apollo.loading` prop:

```vue
<div v-if="$apollo.loading">Loading...</div>
```

Or for this specific `ping` query:

```vue
<div v-if="$apollo.queries.ping.loading">Loading...</div>
```

## Option function

You can use a function which will be called once when the component is created and it must return the option object:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping () {
    // This is called once when the component is created
    // It must return the option object
    return {
      // gql query
      query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
        ping(message: $message)
      }`,
      // Static parameters
      variables: {
        message: 'Meow',
      },
    }
  },
},
```

::: tip
This also works for [subscriptions](./subscriptions.md).
:::

## Reactive query definition

You can use a function for the `query` option. This will update the graphql query definition automatically:

```js
// The featured tag can be either a random tag or the last added tag
featuredTag: {
  query () {
    // Here you can access the component instance with 'this'
    if (this.showTag === 'random') {
      return gql`{
        randomTag {
          id
          label
          type
        }
      }`
    } else if (this.showTag === 'last') {
      return gql`{
        lastTag {
          id
          label
          type
        }
      }`
    }
  },
  // We need this to assign the value of the 'featuredTag' component property
  update: data => data.randomTag || data.lastTag,
},
```

::: tip
This also works for [subscriptions](./subscriptions.md).
:::

## Reactive parameters

Use a function instead to make the parameters reactive with vue properties:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping: {
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    // Reactive parameters
    variables () {
      // Use vue reactive properties here
      return {
          message: this.pingInput,
      }
    },
  },
},
```

This will re-fetch the query each time a parameter changes, for example:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="apollo">
    <h3>Ping</h3>
    <input v-model="pingInput" placeholder="Enter a message" />
    <p>
      {{ping}}
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Skipping the query

If the query is skipped, it will disable it and the result will not be updated anymore. You can use the `skip` option:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  tags: {
    // GraphQL Query
    query: gql`query tagList ($type: String!) {
      tags(type: $type) {
        id
        label
      }
    }`,
    // Reactive variables
    variables () {
      return {
        type: this.type,
      }
    },
    // Disable the query
    skip () {
      return this.skipQuery
    },
  },
},
```

Here, `skip` will be called automatically when the `skipQuery` component property changes.

You can also access the query directly and set the `skip` property:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.tags.skip = true
```

## Reactive Query Example

Here is a reactive query example using polling:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // 'tags' data property on vue instance
  tags: {
    query: gql`query tagList {
      tags {
        id,
        label
      }
    }`,
    pollInterval: 300, // ms
  },
},
```

Here is how the server-side looks like:

```js
export const schema = `
type Tag {
  id: Int
  label: String
}

type Query {
  tags: [Tag]
}

schema {
  query: Query
}
`

// Fake word generator
import casual from 'casual'

// Let's generate some tags
var id = 0
var tags = []
for (let i = 0; i < 42; i++) {
  addTag(casual.word)
}

function addTag (label) {
  let t = {
    id: id++,
    label,
  }
  tags.push(t)
  return t
}

export const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    tags(root, args, context) {
      return tags
    },
  },
}
```

## Manually adding a smart Query

You can manually add a smart query with the `$apollo.addSmartQuery(key, options)` method:

```js
created () {
  this.$apollo.addSmartQuery('comments', {
    // Same options like above
  })
}
```

::: tip
Internally, this method is called for each query entry in the component `apollo` option.
:::

## Advanced options

There are even more options specific to vue-apollo, see the [API Reference](../../api/smart-query.md).

Commit message:

docs: note about skip becoming false

docs/guide/apollo/queries.md, after:

# Queries

In GraphQL, a query is a request made to the API to retrieve data. It is represented with a *GraphQL document* like this:

```graphql
query myHelloQueryName {
  hello
}
```

In the `apollo` object, add an attribute for each property you want to feed with the result of an Apollo query. Each one of them will become a Smart Query.

## Simple query

Use `gql` to write your GraphQL queries:

```js
import gql from 'graphql-tag'
```

Put the [gql](https://github.com/apollographql/graphql-tag) query directly as the value:

```js
apollo: {
  // Simple query that will update the 'hello' vue property
  hello: gql`{hello}`,
},
```

You can then access the query with `this.$apollo.queries.<name>`.

You can initialize the property in your vue component's `data` hook:

```js
data () {
  return {
    // Initialize your apollo data
    hello: '',
  },
},
```

Server-side, add the corresponding schema and resolver:

```js
export const schema = `
type Query {
  hello: String
}

schema {
  query: Query
}
`

export const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    hello (root, args, context) {
      return 'Hello world!'
    },
  },
}
```

For more info, visit the [apollo doc](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/apollo-server/).

You can then use your property as usual in your vue component:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="apollo">
    <h3>Hello</h3>
    <p>
      {{hello}}
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Name matching

Please note that a common beginner's error is to use a different data name from the field name in query, eg:

```js
apollo: {
  world: gql`query {
    hello
  }`
}
```

Notice how `world` is different from `hello`; vue-apollo won't guess which data you want to put in the component from the query result. By default, it will just try the name you are using for the data in the component (which is the key in the `apollo` object), in this case `world`. If the names don't match, you can use `update` option to tell vue-apollo what to use as data from the result:

```js
apollo: {
  world: {
    query: gql`query {
      hello
    }`,
    update: data => data.hello
  }
}
```

You can also rename the field in the GraphQL document directly:

```js
apollo: {
  world: gql`query {
    world: hello
  }`
}
```

In this example, we rename the `hello` field to `world` so that vue-apollo can automatically infer what should be retrieved from the result.

## Query with parameters

You can add variables (read parameters) to your `gql` query by declaring `query` and `variables` in an object:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping: {
    // gql query
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    // Static parameters
    variables: {
      message: 'Meow',
    },
  },
},
```

You can use the apollo `watchQuery` options in the object, like:
 - `fetchPolicy`
 - `pollInterval`
 - ...

See the [apollo doc](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/apollo-client.html#ApolloClient.watchQuery) for more details.

For example, you could add the `fetchPolicy` apollo option like this:

```js
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping: {
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    variables: {
      message: 'Meow'
    },
    // Additional options here
    fetchPolicy: 'cache-and-network',
  },
},
```

Again, you can initialize your property in your vue component:

```js
data () {
  return {
    // Initialize your apollo data
    ping: '',
  }
},
```

Server-side, add the corresponding schema and resolver:

```js
export const schema = `
type Query {
  ping(message: String!): String
}

schema {
  query: Query
}
`

export const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    ping (root, { message }, context) {
      return `Answering ${message}`
    },
  },
}
```

And then use it in your vue component:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="apollo">
    <h3>Ping</h3>
    <p>
      {{ ping }}
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Loading state

You can display a loading state thanks to the `$apollo.loading` prop:

```vue
<div v-if="$apollo.loading">Loading...</div>
```

Or for this specific `ping` query:

```vue
<div v-if="$apollo.queries.ping.loading">Loading...</div>
```

## Option function

You can use a function which will be called once when the component is created and it must return the option object:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping () {
    // This is called once when the component is created
    // It must return the option object
    return {
      // gql query
      query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
        ping(message: $message)
      }`,
      // Static parameters
      variables: {
        message: 'Meow',
      },
    }
  },
},
```

::: tip
This also works for [subscriptions](./subscriptions.md).
:::

## Reactive query definition

You can use a function for the `query` option. This will update the graphql query definition automatically:

```js
// The featured tag can be either a random tag or the last added tag
featuredTag: {
  query () {
    // Here you can access the component instance with 'this'
    if (this.showTag === 'random') {
      return gql`{
        randomTag {
          id
          label
          type
        }
      }`
    } else if (this.showTag === 'last') {
      return gql`{
        lastTag {
          id
          label
          type
        }
      }`
    }
  },
  // We need this to assign the value of the 'featuredTag' component property
  update: data => data.randomTag || data.lastTag,
},
```

::: tip
This also works for [subscriptions](./subscriptions.md).
:::

## Reactive parameters

Use a function instead to make the parameters reactive with vue properties:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Query with parameters
  ping: {
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    // Reactive parameters
    variables () {
      // Use vue reactive properties here
      return {
          message: this.pingInput,
      }
    },
  },
},
```

This will re-fetch the query each time a parameter changes, for example:

```vue
<template>
  <div class="apollo">
    <h3>Ping</h3>
    <input v-model="pingInput" placeholder="Enter a message" />
    <p>
      {{ping}}
    </p>
  </div>
</template>
```

## Skipping the query

If the query is skipped, it will disable it and the result will not be updated anymore. You can use the `skip` option:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  tags: {
    // GraphQL Query
    query: gql`query tagList ($type: String!) {
      tags(type: $type) {
        id
        label
      }
    }`,
    // Reactive variables
    variables () {
      return {
        type: this.type,
      }
    },
    // Disable the query
    skip () {
      return this.skipQuery
    },
  },
},
```

Here, `skip` will be called automatically when the `skipQuery` component property changes.

You can also access the query directly and set the `skip` property:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.tags.skip = true
```

If the query `skip` becomes `false`, the query will automatically execute again.

## Reactive Query Example

Here is a reactive query example using polling:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // 'tags' data property on vue instance
  tags: {
    query: gql`query tagList {
      tags {
        id,
        label
      }
    }`,
    pollInterval: 300, // ms
  },
},
```

Here is how the server-side looks like:

```js
export const schema = `
type Tag {
  id: Int
  label: String
}

type Query {
  tags: [Tag]
}

schema {
  query: Query
}
`

// Fake word generator
import casual from 'casual'

// Let's generate some tags
var id = 0
var tags = []
for (let i = 0; i < 42; i++) {
  addTag(casual.word)
}

function addTag (label) {
  let t = {
    id: id++,
    label,
  }
  tags.push(t)
  return t
}

export const resolvers = {
  Query: {
    tags(root, args, context) {
      return tags
    },
  },
}
```

## Manually adding a smart Query

You can manually add a smart query with the `$apollo.addSmartQuery(key, options)` method:

```js
created () {
  this.$apollo.addSmartQuery('comments', {
    // Same options like above
  })
}
```

::: tip
Internally, this method is called for each query entry in the component `apollo` option.
:::

## Advanced options

There are even more options specific to vue-apollo, see the [API Reference](../../api/smart-query.md).
