docs/api/smart-query.md, before:

# Smart Query

Each query declared in the `apollo` definition (that is, which doesn't start with a `$` char) in a component results in the creation of a smart query object.

## Options

- `query`: GraphQL document (can be a file or a `gql` string).
- `variables`: Object or reactive function that returns an object. Each key will be mapped with a `'$'` in the GraphQL document, for example `foo` will become `$foo`.
- `throttle`: throttle variables updates (in ms).
- `debounce`: debounce variables updates (in ms).
- `pollInterval`: auto update using polling (which means refetching every `x` ms). Default: `undefined`, `0` - stop polling.
- `update(data) {return ...}` to customize the value that is set in the vue property, for example if the field names don't match.
- `result(ApolloQueryResult, key)` is a hook called when a result is received (see documentation for [ApolloQueryResult](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client/blob/master/packages/apollo-client/src/core/types.ts)). `key` is the query key in the `apollo` option.
- `error(error)` is a hook called when there are errors. `error` is an Apollo error object with either a `graphQLErrors` property or a `networkError` property.
- `loadingKey` will update the component data property you pass as the value. You should initialize this property to `0` in the component `data()` hook. When the query is loading, this property will be incremented by 1; when it is no longer loading, it will be decremented by 1. That way, the property can represent a counter of currently loading queries.
- `watchLoading(isLoading, countModifier)` is a hook called when the loading state of the query changes. The `countModifier` parameter is either equal to `1` when the query is loading, or `-1` when the query is no longer loading.
- `manual` is a boolean to disable the automatic property update. If you use it, you then need to specify a `result` callback (see example below).
- `deep` is a boolean to use `deep: true` on Vue watchers.
- `subscribeToMore`: an object or an array of object which are [subscribeToMore options](../guide/apollo/subscriptions.md#subscribetomore).
- `prefetch` is either a boolean or a function to determine if the query should be prefetched. See [Server-Side Rendering](../guide/ssr.md).
- You can also use any other `watchQuery` options (see [Apollo docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/apollo-client.html#ApolloClient.watchQuery)).

Example:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Advanced query with parameters
  // The 'variables' method is watched by vue
  pingMessage: {
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    // Reactive parameters
    variables () {
      // Use vue reactive properties here
      return {
        message: this.pingInput,
      }
    },
    // Variables: deep object watch
    deep: false,
    // We use a custom update callback because
    // the field names don't match
    // By default, the 'pingMessage' attribute
    // would be used on the 'data' result object
    // Here we know the result is in the 'ping' attribute
    // considering the way the apollo server works
    update (data) {
      console.log(data)
      // The returned value will update
      // the vue property 'pingMessage'
      return data.ping
    },
    // Optional result hook
    result ({ data, loading, networkStatus }) {
      console.log('We got some result!')
    },
    // Error handling
    error (error) {
      console.error('We\'ve got an error!', error)
    },
    // Loading state
    // loadingKey is the name of the data property
    // that will be incremented when the query is loading
    // and decremented when it no longer is.
    loadingKey: 'loadingQueriesCount',
    // watchLoading will be called whenever the loading state changes
    watchLoading (isLoading, countModifier) {
      // isLoading is a boolean
      // countModifier is either 1 or -1
    },
  },
},
```

If you use `ES2015`, you can also write the `update` like this:

```js
update: data => data.ping
```

Manual mode example:

```js
{
  query: gql`...`,
  manual: true,
  result ({ data, loading }) {
    if (!loading) {
      this.items = data.items
    }
  },
}
```

## Properties

### Skip

You can pause or unpause with `skip`:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.skip = true
```

### loading

Whether the query is loading:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.loading
```

## Methods

### refresh

Stops and restarts the query:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.refresh()
```

### start

Starts the query:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.start()
```

### stop

Stops the query:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.stop()
```

### fetchMore

Load more data for pagination:

```js
this.page++

this.$apollo.queries.tagsPage.fetchMore({
  // New variables
  variables: {
    page: this.page,
    pageSize,
  },
  // Transform the previous result with new data
  updateQuery: (previousResult, { fetchMoreResult }) => {
    const newTags = fetchMoreResult.tagsPage.tags
    const hasMore = fetchMoreResult.tagsPage.hasMore

    this.showMoreEnabled = hasMore

    return {
      tagsPage: {
        __typename: previousResult.tagsPage.__typename,
        // Merging the tag list
        tags: [...previousResult.tagsPage.tags, ...newTags],
        hasMore,
      },
    }
  },
})
```

### subscribeToMore

Subscribe to more data using GraphQL subscriptions:

```js
// We need to unsubscribe before re-subscribing
if (this.tagsSub) {
  this.tagsSub.unsubscribe()
}
// Subscribe on the query
this.tagsSub = this.$apollo.queries.tags.subscribeToMore({
  document: TAG_ADDED,
  variables: {
    type,
  },
  // Mutate the previous result
  updateQuery: (previousResult, { subscriptionData }) => {
    // If we added the tag already don't do anything
    // This can be caused by the `updateQuery` of our addTag mutation
    if (previousResult.tags.find(tag => tag.id === subscriptionData.data.tagAdded.id)) {
      return previousResult
    }

    return {
      tags: [
        ...previousResult.tags,
        // Add the new tag
        subscriptionData.data.tagAdded,
      ],
    }
  },
})
```

### refetch

Fetch the query again, optionally with new variables:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.refetch()
// With new variables
this.$apollo.queries.users.refetch({
  friendsOf: 'id-user'
})
```

### setVariables

Update the variables on the query and refetch it if they have changed. To force a refetch, use `refetch`.

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.setVariables({
  friendsOf: 'id-user'
})
```

### setOptions

Update the Apollo [watchQuery](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/apollo-client.html#ApolloClient.watchQuery) options and refetch:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.setOptions({
  fetchPolicy: 'cache-and-network'
})
```

### startPolling

Start an auto update using polling (which means refetching every `x` ms):

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.startPolling(2000) // ms
```

### stopPolling

Stop the polling:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.stopPolling()
```

Commit message:

feat: Send the query key as argument to the skip fn (#810)
* Send the query key as argument to the skip fn

This enabled the possibility for the skip to be defined in defaultOptions
And based on certain things from the query to skip it
EG: query with variable X should be skiped  until Y prop is available

* fix: watch logic

* docs(api): skip option

* chore: fix e2e dev

* fix: skip watch logic

docs/api/smart-query.md, after:

# Smart Query

Each query declared in the `apollo` definition (that is, which doesn't start with a `$` char) in a component results in the creation of a smart query object.

## Options

- `query`: GraphQL document (can be a file or a `gql` string).
- `variables`: Object or reactive function that returns an object. Each key will be mapped with a `'$'` in the GraphQL document, for example `foo` will become `$foo`.
- `throttle`: throttle variables updates (in ms).
- `debounce`: debounce variables updates (in ms).
- `pollInterval`: auto update using polling (which means refetching every `x` ms). Default: `undefined`, `0` - stop polling.
- `update(data) {return ...}` to customize the value that is set in the vue property, for example if the field names don't match.
- `result(ApolloQueryResult, key)` is a hook called when a result is received (see documentation for [ApolloQueryResult](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-client/blob/master/packages/apollo-client/src/core/types.ts)). `key` is the query key in the `apollo` option.
- `error(error)` is a hook called when there are errors. `error` is an Apollo error object with either a `graphQLErrors` property or a `networkError` property.
- `loadingKey` will update the component data property you pass as the value. You should initialize this property to `0` in the component `data()` hook. When the query is loading, this property will be incremented by 1; when it is no longer loading, it will be decremented by 1. That way, the property can represent a counter of currently loading queries.
- `watchLoading(isLoading, countModifier)` is a hook called when the loading state of the query changes. The `countModifier` parameter is either equal to `1` when the query is loading, or `-1` when the query is no longer loading.
- `manual` is a boolean to disable the automatic property update. If you use it, you then need to specify a `result` callback (see example below).
- `deep` is a boolean to use `deep: true` on Vue watchers.
- `skip` is a boolean or a (reactive) function that returns a boolean. The function gets the current component and smart query key as arguments, so it can be used in `$query` and in `ApolloProvider`'s `defaultOptions`.
- `subscribeToMore`: an object or an array of object which are [subscribeToMore options](../guide/apollo/subscriptions.md#subscribetomore).
- `prefetch` is either a boolean or a function to determine if the query should be prefetched. See [Server-Side Rendering](../guide/ssr.md).
- You can also use any other `watchQuery` options (see [Apollo docs](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/apollo-client.html#ApolloClient.watchQuery)).

Example:

```js
// Apollo-specific options
apollo: {
  // Advanced query with parameters
  // The 'variables' method is watched by vue
  pingMessage: {
    query: gql`query PingMessage($message: String!) {
      ping(message: $message)
    }`,
    // Reactive parameters
    variables () {
      // Use vue reactive properties here
      return {
        message: this.pingInput,
      }
    },
    // Variables: deep object watch
    deep: false,
    // We use a custom update callback because
    // the field names don't match
    // By default, the 'pingMessage' attribute
    // would be used on the 'data' result object
    // Here we know the result is in the 'ping' attribute
    // considering the way the apollo server works
    update (data) {
      console.log(data)
      // The returned value will update
      // the vue property 'pingMessage'
      return data.ping
    },
    // Optional result hook
    result ({ data, loading, networkStatus }) {
      console.log('We got some result!')
    },
    // Error handling
    error (error) {
      console.error('We\'ve got an error!', error)
    },
    // Loading state
    // loadingKey is the name of the data property
    // that will be incremented when the query is loading
    // and decremented when it no longer is.
    loadingKey: 'loadingQueriesCount',
    // watchLoading will be called whenever the loading state changes
    watchLoading (isLoading, countModifier) {
      // isLoading is a boolean
      // countModifier is either 1 or -1
    },
  },
},
```

If you use `ES2015`, you can also write the `update` like this:

```js
update: data => data.ping
```

Manual mode example:

```js
{
  query: gql`...`,
  manual: true,
  result ({ data, loading }) {
    if (!loading) {
      this.items = data.items
    }
  },
}
```

## Properties

### Skip

You can pause or unpause with `skip`:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.skip = true
```

### loading

Whether the query is loading:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.loading
```

## Methods

### refresh

Stops and restarts the query:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.refresh()
```

### start

Starts the query:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.start()
```

### stop

Stops the query:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.stop()
```

### fetchMore

Load more data for pagination:

```js
this.page++

this.$apollo.queries.tagsPage.fetchMore({
  // New variables
  variables: {
    page: this.page,
    pageSize,
  },
  // Transform the previous result with new data
  updateQuery: (previousResult, { fetchMoreResult }) => {
    const newTags = fetchMoreResult.tagsPage.tags
    const hasMore = fetchMoreResult.tagsPage.hasMore

    this.showMoreEnabled = hasMore

    return {
      tagsPage: {
        __typename: previousResult.tagsPage.__typename,
        // Merging the tag list
        tags: [...previousResult.tagsPage.tags, ...newTags],
        hasMore,
      },
    }
  },
})
```

### subscribeToMore

Subscribe to more data using GraphQL subscriptions:

```js
// We need to unsubscribe before re-subscribing
if (this.tagsSub) {
  this.tagsSub.unsubscribe()
}
// Subscribe on the query
this.tagsSub = this.$apollo.queries.tags.subscribeToMore({
  document: TAG_ADDED,
  variables: {
    type,
  },
  // Mutate the previous result
  updateQuery: (previousResult, { subscriptionData }) => {
    // If we added the tag already don't do anything
    // This can be caused by the `updateQuery` of our addTag mutation
    if (previousResult.tags.find(tag => tag.id === subscriptionData.data.tagAdded.id)) {
      return previousResult
    }

    return {
      tags: [
        ...previousResult.tags,
        // Add the new tag
        subscriptionData.data.tagAdded,
      ],
    }
  },
})
```

### refetch

Fetch the query again, optionally with new variables:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.refetch()
// With new variables
this.$apollo.queries.users.refetch({
  friendsOf: 'id-user'
})
```

### setVariables

Update the variables on the query and refetch it if they have changed. To force a refetch, use `refetch`.

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.setVariables({
  friendsOf: 'id-user'
})
```

### setOptions

Update the Apollo [watchQuery](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/apollo-client.html#ApolloClient.watchQuery) options and refetch:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.setOptions({
  fetchPolicy: 'cache-and-network'
})
```

### startPolling

Start an auto update using polling (which means refetching every `x` ms):

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.startPolling(2000) // ms
```

### stopPolling

Stop the polling:

```js
this.$apollo.queries.users.stopPolling()
```
